#Sri Lanka Wildlife Conservation Society (SLWCS)
1998 to 2010

##Experience / Role
Operations Director & GIS/IT Specialist: Responsible for technical, administrative, and financial management of all projects.

##Key Achievements:
~Recipient of the 2008 Equator Initiative (UNDP) Award for Sustainable Development.
~Multiple funding rounds/projects with US Fish and Wildlife (USAID), AUSAID, Canadian Development Agency (CIDA), Google, The Nature Conservancy, International Elephant Foundation, Whitley Fund for Nature and many other organisations
~Media Programs with Aninal Planet, Discovery and news agencies.
~International Volunteer programs with Earthwatch, Biosphere and others
~Managed work sites in 3 provinces concurrently with over 20 staff from the local community, students (school and university) and PHd researchers.

##Projects & Key Initiatives
~Conservation GIS Center (c2GIS): Established self-financing hub, securing $300,000+ funding and managing 500k+ in assets including ArcINFO licenses.
~Saving Elephants by Helping People (SEHP): Community-integrated human-elephant conflict mitigation.
~CRES/RERU Methodologies: Developed the Comprehensive Rapid Evaluation System for objective biodiversity and socio-economic priority ranking for UN RAMSAR sites.
~Attended and organised multiple local and international conservation conferences, workshops and forums.


2010: Organised - South Africa Study tour to 4 elephant conservation (in/ex-situ) projects and 2 marine mammal conservation projects across South Africa 
 
2009: Organised - International Workshop on HEC in Beijing China as part of the Society for Conservation Biology and on behalf of the IUCN, Asian Elephant Specialist Group.
 
2009: Member of Education Committee of Institute of Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka (IEPSL)

2009: Training in Strategic Environmental Assessment Process which incorporates conservation into national plans at a policy level.
 
2008: Organisation Recipient of EquatorNet (United Nations Development Program) International Award  for one of the best international community based sustainable development programs (won by the SLWCS)
 
2008 – Present:  Executive Committee Member, Geo-Informatics Society of Sri Lanka
 
2008: International Elephant Foundation and Govt. of Indonesia Consultant
·         Consulting in developing a program for Human Elephant Conflict mitigation in Bengkulu, Sumatra, Indonesia based on the “Saving Elephants by Helping People” concept.
 
2007: UNESCO SL and Government of Sri Lanka Consultant
·         Consulting in the ecological aspects of nominations of sites in Sri Lanka as World Heritage Sites and in developing conservation based development plans

1997 (First Quarter) Southern Elephant Research Group Dr. P. Fernando
 
1996 (Last Quarter) Smithsonian Torque Macaque Project Dr. W. Dittus


 
Publications, Presentations & Images

2010
Multiple Presentations and Papers for International Elephant Foundation Symposium – South Africa, January 2010. Presenter and Co-Author on the following four papers
1.      “THE CHALLENGES OF ESTABLISHING A PROJECT INTEGRATING PHYSICAL AND BIOLOGICAL METHODS TO MITIGATE HUMAN-ELEPHANT CONFLICTS WHILE IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS OF BUFFER ZONE COMMUNITIES”. 
2.      “AN AUTOMATED ELEPHANT RECOGNITION SYSTEM FOR COLLABORATIVE HABITAT MONITORING”.
3.      "THE MORAGAHAKANDA AND KALUGANGA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR HUMAN-ELEPHANT CONFLICT RESOLUTION IN SRI LANKA".
4.      "ELECTRIC FENCE INTRUSION ALERT SYSTEM (eleAlert)"
 2009
1. Nov 2009 (1st Draft). "Living Document on Human Elephant Conflict Resolution". Human Elephant Conflict Task Force, IUCN Asian Elephant Specialist Group. Editors: Ravi Corea, Simon Hedges, Ajay Desai, Meenakshi Nagendra and Chandeep Corea.
2. Sept 2009 - ABSTRACT. "Climate Change and Disaster Risk Reduction thru Spatial and Temporal Approaches to Human-Elephant Conflict Mitigation” . UNDP Disaster Management Symposium, Colombo, Sri Lanka. Chandeep Corea, Ravi Corea and Samantha Mirandu
3. July 2009. PRESENTATION. "Climate Change and Disaster Risk Reduction thru Spatial and Temporal Approaches to Human-Elephant Conflict Mitigation" by Chandeep Corea, Ravi Corea and Samantha Mirandu. UNDP Disaster Management Symposium.
4. July 2009. ORGANISATION and PRESENTATION. "Human Elephant Conflict Workshop, Beijing, China.". IUCN Asian Elephant Specialist Group. Ravi Corea, Chandeep Corea and Upul Karunasinghe
5. June 2009. SLWCS Annual Report 2006-2008.
6. March 2009. PRESENTATION. "Lessons Learned in Human Elephant Conflict Mitigation". Consortium of Humanitarian Agencies (CHA) Environmental Forum. Chandeep Corea and Ravi Corea.
7. March 2009. PRESENTATION. "SMART Conservation for Better Business". Board of Investment of Sri Lanka. Chandeep Corea and Ravi Corea.
8. Feb 2009. PRESENTATION and STALL. "Lessons Learned in Livelihood Development and Agricultural Production enhancement through Mitigation of Human Elephant Conflict and Habitat Conservation". Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) Lessons Learned Conference. Presented by Chandeep Corea. Contributing Authors: Ravi Corea, Nishantha Dharmasiri, Upul Karunasinghe, Samantha Mirandu and Chinthaka Weerasinghe.
2008
1. November 2008.  PRESENTATION –"Keeping the elephant visible in the public eye: Establishing a veterinary healthcare, husbandry and breeding program for captive elephants in Sri Lanka". International Elephant Foundation 2008 Symposium Thailand. Presented by Ravi Corea. Contributing Authors: Professor Indira Silva, Dr. Ashoka Dangolla, Sandith Samarasinghe & Chandeep Corea
2. November 2008. PRESENTATION -"THE OUTCOMES AND LESSONS LEARNED FROM 10 YEARS OF SAVING ELEPHANTS BY HELPING PEOPLE PROJECT".  International Elephant Foundation 2008 Symposium Thailand. Presented by Ravi Corea. Contributing Authors Chandeep Corea, Upul Karunasinghe, Nishantha Dharmasiri, Samantha Mirindu, Chintaka Weerasinghe, Chandima Fernando & Harsha Gammanpila
3. June 2008 – PRESENTATION – “Ponds of Mercy - Can urban wetlands survive and flourish in Sri Lanka? – A preliminary discussion about the conservation and development of the Bellanwilla and Bandaragama Urban Wetlands”. 14th Annual Scientific Sessions of the Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources.” By Chandeep Corea. Contributing Authors: Chandima Fernando, Nishantha Dharmasiri, Zeenath Khalid and Ravi Corea
4. June 2008 – PRESENTATION – “A Fish Story from a Riverscape in the 1st Peneplane of the Eastern Knuckles.”. Riverscapes Conference.  By Samantha Mirandu, Chandeep Corea and Ravi Corea
5. June 2008 – PRESENTATION – “A GIS based socio-ecological assessment of the current human uses of the Flood Plains National Park (December 2005 – April 2006).” Riverscapes Conference. By Nishantha Dharmasiri, Zeenath Khalid, Chandeep Corea and Ravi Corea
6. June 2008 – PRESENTATION – “Kalpitiya-Kariative-Puttalam (KKP) & Seruvila-Allia-Ullakalie (SAU) Coastal Wetland Complexes – A Comprehensive GIS based assessment and suggstions for conservation actions" Riverscapes Conference. – By Chandeep Corea 
7. May 2008 – REPORT – “Project Progress Report - Preliminary field surveys to assess the status of the endangered Dugong (Dugong dugon) and to record sea turtle nesting, poaching, by-catch mortalities and other threats in the Kalpitiya-Karaitive Puttalam Coastal Wetlands Complex”. – By Chandeep Corea
8. April 2008 – PRESENTATION -  "GIS and Community Tools for Conservation and Development". -  By Chandeep Corea – for Senior Staff and researchers of Conservation International, Jakarta, Indonesia
9. April 2008 – PRESENTATION – "GIS Based Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilization Baseline Survey of Lunugala Area - UNESCO - GoSL Horizon Development Roundtables for Trincomalee and Badulla Districts”. - By Chandeep Corea, Samantha Mirandu, Chinthaka Weerasinghe, Ravi Corea
10. April 2008 – PRESENTATION – "GIS Based Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilization Baseline Survey of Seruvila Area - UNESCO - GoSL Horizon Development Roundtables for Trincomalee and Badulla Districts”. - By Chandeep Corea, Samantha Mirandu, Chinthaka Weerasinghe, Ravi Corea
11. April 2008 – REPORT - “GIS Based Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilisation Baseline Survey of the Proposed Seruwila UNESCO World Heritage Site and Environment.” – By Chandeep Corea, Nishantha Dharmasiri, Samantha Mirandu and Ravi Corea
12. Presentation, Reports and Co-Organizer: "UNESCO-GoSL Horizon Development Roundtables for Trincomalee and Badulla Districts”. April/May 2008.
13. Report: "GIS Based Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilization Baseline Survey of Lunagala Division, Badulla District, Uva Province, Sri Lanka”. Chandeep Corea, Samantha Mirandu, Chinthaka Weerasinghe, Lara Doherty and Ravi Corea.
14. Presentation "GIS and Community Tools for Conservation and Development". Senior Staff and researchers of Conservation International, Jakarta, Indonesia, April 16th, 2008
15. Presentation and Lectures "Community based Conservation and Development including GIS, PRA/RRA and research methodologies". Senior Staff and researchers of the Bengkulu, Natural Resources Agency, Indonesia. March/April, 2008
16. Presentation "Imagery in Conservation". GISSL Annual National Meeting. February 22nd, 2008
17. Lectures "Conservation GIS Course". University of Peradeniya, February 17th-21st, 2008.
18. Presentation "A Land Use Approach to Elephant Conservation" for Born Free Foundation Symposium January 2008. Ravi Corea and Chandeep Corea
19. Report: "GIS Based Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilization Baseline Survey of the Proposed Seruvila UNESCO World Heritage Site”. Chandeep Corea,Samantha Mirandu, Nishantha Dharmasiri and Ravi Corea.
20. Presentation and Paper "An Assessment of the Kalpitiya Karaitive Puttalam Coastal Wetland Complex with Recommendations for its Conservation and Water Security Issues". Chandeep Corea, Chandima Fernando, Nishantha Dharmasiri, Ravi Corea, Zeenath Khalid.

2007

1. Presentation and Poster on “Use of GIS in Small Conservation Organizations –Community integrated solutions for HEC in Sri Lanka” for ESRI and SCGIS 2007 Conferences in San Diego and Monterrey, California, USA. June 2007. Paper in Draft.
2.  Report “Final Technical Report for Kalpitiya Wetlands, Sri Lanka” Funded by the IUCN-Netherlands. Corea R, Corea C, Khalid Z, Veerakoon D, Dharmasiri N. In Draft.
3. Report “Final Report on Field Scouts Program” for US Fish and Wildlife Service. Corea R, Corea C, Gamanpila H. January 2007.
4. Report “Donating Computers to Rural Schools and Development Plan” for Lanka Academic Network. January 2007.

2006
1. Plan “Development of SLWCS Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems Capacity”. December 2006.
2. Report “Final Technical Report for Flood Plains National Park, Sri Lanka” Funded by the IUCN-Netherlands. Khalid Z, Veerakoon D, Dharmasiri N, Corea R, Corea C. November 2006.
3. Manual “Leopard Research in Central Sri Lanka: A field procedures manual” for SLWCS volunteers and staff. Weckel M, Winnicorn A, Corea C. June 2006
4. Report “Final Technical Report; Socioeconomic Baseline of the Flood Plains National Park, Polonnaruwa, Sri Lanka” Funded by the IUCN-Netherlands. Pp38 Author: Khalid Z, Co-Author: Dharmasiri N, Editors: Corea C, Corea R. May 2006.
5. Report “Final Technical Report for Bellanwila Attidiya Bird Sanctuary, Sri Lanka” Funded by the IUCN-Netherlands. Corea R, Corea C, Khalid Z, Veerakoon D, Dharmasiri N, Fernando C. April 2006.
6. Presentation and Paper “Impact of Tsunami on Protected Areas in Sri Lanka: One Year Later” Sanjayan M, Corea R, Brodie J, Corea C. January 2006.

Prior to 2006
1. Report “Rapid Assessment of Human Elephant Conflict in the North West Region of Sri Lanka” Partially funded by Born Free Foundation. Author: Khalid Z, Co-Author: Dharmasiri N, Editors: Corea C, Corea R. Sep 2005.
2. Presentation and Paper “Rapid Assessment of Protected Areas damaged by Asian Tsunami of December 2004” Sanjayan M, Corea R, Boucher T, Corea C.Feb 2005.
3. Case Study “Elephant Walk Thru” for Harvard Business School and Ivey Case Studies. Ritchie W, Shell M, Corea R, Corea C.
4. Presentation (in absentia) ”Elephant Walk Thru case study for win/win development, conservation and sustainable development” for North American Case Research Association. Ritchie W, Shell M, Corea R , Corea C. Tampa, Florida, USA. November 2003
5. Presentation – “Saving Elephants by Helping People (SEHP): Lessons in Community Integrated Elephant Conservation” for Symposium on Human Elephant Relationships and Conflicts, Colombo, Sri Lanka, October 2003.
6. Presentation –“ Developing economic incentives for the economically and biologically sustainable use of biodiversity” for World Eco-Tourism Summit, Quebec, Canada, May 2002 Co-Presenter.
7. Presentation - “Saving Elephants by Helping People” for International Elephant Foundation Symposium –Orlando, Florida, USA. November 2002.Additionally I have worked on numerous internal policy, management and research documents as well as monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports for international partner organizations and the use of the SLWCS international Board of Directors and Advisors.

EXAMPLES OF WORK EXPERIENCE (International - Non-Australian)

1. ABILITIES ATTRIBUTES AND SKILLS
Since 1996, I have been the Operations Director and GIS/IT Specialist of the Sri Lanka Wildlife Conservation Society (SLWCS) which is an organization registered in USA and Australia and working (till 2008) exclusively in Sri Lanka. I am solely responsible for overseeing the technical, administrative and financial management for all projects. I also operate two companies responsible for Tourism and Agriculture Development and have owned and operated a web graphic/program development company. This includes researching and purchasing IT/Research equipment, resolving HR issues and both micro-and-macro scale management as well as working with scientific staff to develop the field research methods, working with logistics and financial/administrative staff to ensure that operations run smoothly even in the backcountry where the security threat of conflict was a constant and primary concern (till mid-2009) and equipment was usually old. I developed and we practiced a 3’S philosophy of “Safety-Science-Satisfaction” to ensure staff and guest safety.   As a result no staff member, volunteer or guest has ever been injured or hospitalized in more than a decade of operations. We currently have over 20 staff members and work with over 100 international volunteers every year.
	
	1.1 Strong interpersonal and relationship building skills with proven abilities in consulting, liaising and negotiating with people at all levels.
In 2009, I co-coordinated an international workshop in China on behalf of the IUCN, Asian Elephant Conservation Group, where I was responsible for all aspects of the program from arranging flights for over 50 participants from all over Asia to arranging media coverage and  coordinating with the international Society for Conservation Biology organizing team to scavenging ‘flip charts’ which are made in China but not available in China. The result is a collaboratively authored ‘living document’ and geoportal for effective collaboration between all stakeholders (see 7.3 and 7.5 for more details).
In 2008, I led a team to train officials of the Govt. of Indonesia, Bengkulu on HEC mitigation methods using the process that we have learned over 10 years of the UNDP Equator Initiative and Whitley Fund for Nature, award winning “Saving Elephants by Helping People (SEHP)” project. In 2010 we have been invited to Botswana to carry out a similar program.
We currently have 3 international offices with personnel working from them at different times of the day. We also have 4 bases in Sri Lanka plus mangers who work from their homes and from field sites with varying levels of access to the internet, phone and even electric power. Despite these constraints I have introduced online-offline collaboration systems utilizing Google based freeware and custom-designed programs to enable effective and constant communication between all levels. This has resulted in us being able to complete many projects within short periods of time.
 
	1.2 Demonstrated high levels of initiative, autonomy, teamwork and personal accountability in planning and prioritizing work to meet agreed objectives.
Most of the coordination work that I do has been based on developing systems which enable all collaborators to focus on their specialties. In early March 2009, as part of Phase 2 of a major development program, we got approval from a multilateral aid agency to build agro wells, develop home gardens, conduct conservation education, build a community education center, extend an electric fence to stop marauding elephants, establish a Micro-Finance system and use GIS to map and track these subprojects. By the first week of April I had coordinated the program in a way that we had completed all these tasks, under budget and to the satisfaction of the funding agency and beneficiary communities. This was an $80,000 extension to a successfully completed, $300,000 project. Even after the project was finished I made sure that we were able to continue to monitor the work to make sure that the benefits to the community continued to grow.  In this process I took on the micro-management of some projects so that individuals in the team that I was leading had the time to attend to their tasks without overextending themselves.
The above is just one example where I have taken the initiative to pre-plan and arrange work so that both internal and external (funding agency) goals are met on time and under budget without sacrificing quality.
 
	1.3 Demonstrated ability to apply sound judgment to the identification, analysis and development of plans, initiatives and problem solutions.
My involvement for more than the last 10 years has been in the full project cycle from sourcing requests for proposals and developing concept notes to drawing up full scale proposals including Log Frame Analysis, financial and legal documentation, design of monitoring systems, setting timelines, field evaluation and re-assessment depending on changing priorities and writing interim and final reports according to specific funding agency requirements. My fluid job specification has also meant that I handle film crew logistics (including writing the script, editing and filming and have appeared on camera in numerous documentaries (see CV for details), organized travel programs for important donors and schools, developed mixed-media campaigns, designed and produced short videos, and held photographic exhibitions.
The projects we are implementing include socio-economic, biodiversity and GIS based studies which have been streamlined into our “Rapid Ecological Resource Utilization (RERU)” surveys applied domestically in 3 of the 5 administrative provinces and internationally as consultants to Governments and NGO’s in Botswana, South Africa, India, Vietnam and Indonesia. The process has been modified and applied in wetland, mountain and valley sites and forms the first step of the strategies we have developed for the long term conservation of target sites and the development of rural people living in the vicinity [See 8.1 for further details].
One clear example of my experience is the Conservation GIS Center (c2GIS) of the SLWCS that I conceptualized and set up without spending any internal funds to be a fully self financing operation (within 2 years) that generates revenue for the Society and has acquired 7 Arc INFO licenses with extensions, several GPS units and laptops/desktops/PDA’s, terabytes of Imagery and vector data which have been organized and processed for easy access by all users within the organization.  We have data sharing agreements with Google Earth and the International Water Management Institute (IWMI) plus an ongoing project for the Fire Department of Sri Lanka requires us to coordinate with defense authorities, government and semi-government authorities and users to ensure that the system is secure but necessary components are open to use by the general public. Within 3 years, I grew this initiative from a program with a zero dollar budget to one that had risen to over half a million dollars worth of assets.

	1.4 Demonstrated high level communication and writing skills and the ability to present information in a manner relevant to a range of audiences and purposes.
In the last three years (Jan 2008 to Feb 2010) I have presented, authored or co-authored 35 papers at international symposiums. This is apart from the almost 100 project reports and project proposals that I have worked on each year and the numerous community, regional and national level workshops and meetings that I have presented and sat on the expert panel at.  One of the key programs I am working on is our Outdoor Environmental Education and Poster projects. The goal in these programs is to take the research and experience based knowledge that we have acquired and to convert this to visual media that clearly identifies the issues, the lessons learned and the way forward. I have done this through working with professional volunteers who have produced videos, brochures, posters, presentations, news paper articles, websites and organized public exhibitions in rural areas. The audience for these presentations have included school children, the urban elite, the  rural farmer, city businessmen , local politicians and  Members of National Parliament of Sri Lanka.

	1.5 Sound ability to develop strategies to promote and engage the community in volunteering in natural resources management.
When the SLWCS initiated the world’s first community integrated elephant fence in 1998, it took us 4 years to build an eight Kilometer fence. The next fence in 2002 took us less than 12 months to complete and since then the turnaround has dropped further. The reason for the initial delays was not technical but due the community not fully comprehending the amount of work that was necessary. Despite my  “job” being volunteer and part time at the this stage, I was able to start working WITH the communities rather than simply FOR them and as they saw that we were there to assist them, they took ownership of the project. This fence is now the longest continually operating electric fence in Sri Lanka because of the interaction with the communities that I helped establish and a key reason for us receiving the Equator Initiative award in 2008.

2. EXPERIENCE
	2.1 Sound experience in planning and implementing a diverse range of community engagement, education and extension programs, activities and initiatives.
In 2002 we initiated (and I coordinated) a project called the “Field Scouts Program (FSP)” which trained rural youth to handle field research programs, do data entry and field analysis of the results. This was after we ran a comprehensive volunteer based English education programs and chose the students who were most interested in conservation and able to comfortably interact in English. The scouts were then put in charge of teams of foreign paying volunteers who worked under the direction of our project manager who reported directly to me. Through this program we worked with over 100 volunteers per year despite an ongoing war (till mid-2009) and continue to raise enough funds to not only sustain and operate the program but to also act as a funding source for pioneering projects and intervensions that are necessary and cannot wait to go through a typical funding cycle. This is because conservation is “Crisis Driven” and even a day’s delay can be too late.
	
	2.2 Experience in strategic planning processes and the development of strategic plans.
I have training in Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA’s) and the process followed in this not only helps in higher level regional planning but also helps in developing plans, risk assessments and M&E systems for organizations and single projects.  Within the organization I have been responsible for developing annual cash flow models to plan/strategize investments in projects for the future, drafting log-frames to look at expected results, anticipated issues and mitigatory measures along with developing tools to continually track progress so that activities can be streamlined to achieve the desired results.
 
	2.3 Experience in the preparation of high level reports, briefing papers and/or promotional material.
The geoportal that we are developing based on the outcomes of the workshop in China (see 6.1 and 7.5) is designed to capture data from different user groups within the target audience (such as researchers who work on both wild and captive elephants, the media, students, policy makers and fundraisers) and includes a process of market analysis, developing of business and financing plans for sustainable operation, fund-raising, design, data input, live analysis and continual evaluation followed by restructuring according to the learned lessons. The immediate result has been developing strong personal links between academics, government servants and the media in all the range countries of the Asian Elephant and with key external funding agencies which has led to discussions about collaboration between regional organizations who have similar issues and experience in what works and doesn’t work in different cases.
The key factor in the success of these enterprises is effective coordination and delegation which we have achieved through learning about, localizing and implementing new internet based tools. At the 2010 IEF Conference (see 7.5) this elePortal was presented and was a highlight of the whole symposium.
I have authored (and co-authored) several papers with core themes ranging from GIS to Biodiversity, Community mobilization, Wetland dynamics, Marine conservation, Socio-economics and business development. One of them is now used as a case study for win-win-win development in Harvard (and internationally through Ivy publishing). I am involved in drafting all the technical and financial proposals and reports of the society to funding agencies, including several Government/Aid Agency funds.
 
	2.4 Demonstrated ability to act as an Executive Officer to Committees, including preparation of agendas, formulation of minutes and follow up of action items.
In both my work and volunteer roles I have often conducted meetings which have included staff and collaborators ranging from drivers to doctors, villagers to urbanites; produced pre-meeting agendas, distributed results and timelines for action and monitored the resulting actions. I developed and continue to refine, my organizations data policy which includes methods for securing confidential documents and summarizing and releasing imagery and data to partners, the media and general public.

	2.5 Experience in public speaking, presentations to large groups and the ability to facilitate workshops, meetings, etc.
As a guest-lecturer to the Department of Land Management, University of Sri Jayawardenepura and an organizer/resource person for numerous courses and programs for schools on Conservation GIS, I have been able to effectively communicate complex research based methodologies to different age, skill and interest groups.
I was recently appointed to the education committee of the Institute of Environmental Professionals of Sri Lanka and am currently the course coordinator for the Geo-Informatics Society of Sri Lanka.
I have coordinated several international symposiums: The first international symposium that I helped coordinate was the International Elephant Foundation (IEF) annual symposium that was held in Sri Lanka in 2003 where we were the first to introduce pre-and-post tours to elephant research projects around the country instead of the run of the mill tourist tour. The last international forum I coordinated was in June 2009 where I led the team to organize an international workshop in Beijing, China (see 6.1 and 7.3). The activities ranged from selecting grantees, to arranging their flights, to all logistics in country and coordinating post-workshop publication of the first ever living document for managing Human Elephant Conflict throughout Asia. The last local exhibition I coordinated was the 10th Anniversary Celebration (in Sept 2009) of our first project which was held at the initial project site.  In 2007 I was a scholar and presented at the Earth Science Resource Institute Annual User Conference (ESRI-UC) which annually draws over 15,000 participants to San Diego, CA, USA. The most recent was the 2010 IEF conference and subsequent field visits to a range of  in-situ and ex-sity Elephant and Marine programs. I was hosted at and presented at these programs in South Africa. For more details please see my CV.

2.6 Demonstrated high level of verbal and written communication skills allowing effective communication to a diverse range of staff and stakeholders, including representing the Department in external forums.
In the last three years (Jan 2008 to Feb 2010) I have presented, authored or co-authored 35 papers at international symposiums. This is in addition to almost 100 project reports and project proposals that I have worked on each year and the numerous community, regional and national level workshops and meetings that I have presented and sat on expert panels at.  One of the key programs I am working on is our Outdoor Environmental Education (OEE) and Poster projects. The goal in these programs is to take the research and experience based knowledge that we have acquired and to convert this to visual media that clearly identifies the issues, the lessons learned and the way forward. I have done this through finding and working with professional volunteers who have produced videos, brochures, posters, presentations, news paper articles, websites and organized public exhibitions in rural areas. The audience for these presentations have included school children, the urban elite, the rural farmer, city businessmen , local politicians and  members of national parliament of Sri Lanka.
In early May 08, I co-organized and presented at several UNESCO/GOSL roundtables for multi-sectoral development. The World Bank, UNDP, UNICEF and other multilateral development funding agencies attended these round tables which were used for UNDAF (United Nations Development Aid Framework) under the 10 year Millennium Development Plan.

	2.7 Experience with a wide range of ecological survey and monitoring techniques, supporting decision making, assessment and reporting. 
The projects I have been responsible for implementing include socio-economic, biodiversity and GIS based studies which have been streamlined into our “Rapid Ecological Resource Utilization (RERU)” surveys applied domestically in 3 of the 5 administrative provinces and internationally as consultants to Governments and NGO’s in Botswana, South Africa, India, Vietnam and Indonesia. The process has been modified and applied in wetland, mountain and valley sites and forms the first step of the strategies we have developed for the long term conservation of target sites and the development of rural people living in the vicinity. 
I have training in Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEA’s) and the process followed in this not only helps in higher level regional planning but also helps in developing plans, risk assessments and Monitoring & Evaluation systems for organizations and single projects.
I was instrumental in designing the SLWCS, Comprehensive Rapid Evaluation System (CRES) which is an objective research based priority ranking system that utilizes multiple techniques such as DELPHI, Participatory Rural Appraisals, Rapid Rural Appraisals, CEA Wetland System, North American Wetlands Conservation Councils –Canada method, RECCE Method for New Zealand Surveys, Broad Reconnaissance Survey and Point Count methods at national and provincial levels taking the village and community members as the smallest unit of information. CRES ensures that a site is evaluated based on its natural, socio-economic and cultural values in a way that sites and sub-sites can be compared and actions prioritized.

	2.8 Demonstrated ability to initiate, plan, coordinate and achieve work programs and outcomes within available resources and specified timeframes.
I conceptualized and set up the Conservation GIS Center (c2GIS) of the SLWCS. The C2GIS has acquired 7 Arc INFO licenses with extensions, several GPS units and laptops/desktops/PDA’s, terabytes of Imagery and vector data which have been organized and processed for easy access by all users within the organization.  We have data sharing agreements with Google Earth and the International Water Management Institute (IWMI).  We have an ongoing project for the Fire Department of Sri Lanka to set up an Emergency Fire Response System which requires us to coordinate with defense authorities, government and semi-government authorities and users to ensure that the system is secure but necessary components are open to use by the general public. Within 3 years, I developed this initiative from a program with a zero dollar budget to one that had risen to over half a million dollars worth of assets.
Within the organization I have been responsible for developing annual cash flow models to plan/strategize investments in projects for the future, drafting log-frames to look at expected results, anticipated issues and mitigatory measures along with developing tools to continually track progress so that activities can be streamlined to achieve the desired results.

	2.9 Demonstrated ability to effectively manage risk, procurement and financial and physical resources, potentially across multiple funding and administrative sources. 

The organisation I manage has 3 international offices with personnel working from them at different times of the day. We also have 4 bases in Sri Lanka plus mangers who work from their homes and from field sites with varying levels of access to the internet, phone and even electric power. Despite these constraints I have introduced online-offline collaboration systems utilizing Google based freeware and custom-designed programs to enable effective and constant communication between all levels. This has resulted in us being able to complete many projects within short periods of time. 

	2.10 Demonstrated high level ability to effectively operate as a positive and constructive team leader,managing multi-disciplinary teams of employees, including undertaking performance management processes.

 
My fluid job specification has also meant that I handle film crew logistics (including writing the script, editing and filming) and have appeared on camera in numerous documentaries (see CV for details), organized travel programs for important donors and schools, developed mixed-media campaigns and held photographic exhibitions.  My involvement for more than the last 10 years has been in the full project cycle from sourcing requests for proposals and developing concept notes to drawing up full scale proposals including Log Frame Analysis, SWAT assessments and gender matrixes financial and legal documentation, design of monitoring systems, setting timelines, field evaluation and re-assessment depending on changing priorities and writing interim and final reports according to specific funding agency requirements. I developed the policy and procedure documents for SLWCS data entry and reporting, staff loans, international agreements, partner/collaborations and staff /consultant annual assessments as well as monthly work/task tracking methods. I have prepared the annual reports and updates to the International Board of Trustees with the President of the Society.
Managing a diverse team of employees and consultants has been an interesting challenge as they all bring different skill sets and experiences to the table. One key successful strategy has been to have a task rather than time based structure. This means that all employees are not on a 9-5 schedule and thus there is no concept of after-hours or weekend work. Team members are held accountable to completing mutually agreed tasks within time frames that are discussed. The progress is regularly monitored so that changes can be made as needed.
One recent project was with Prospero productions of Australia, which were visiting Sri Lanka to film the SEHP project that I manage and a reptile conservation program run by a student organization that we work with. This was for an episode of the “Snake Buster” series on Animal Planet. The shoot was scheduled for a few days after the National Park was closed due to a possible terrorist threat and not only did I have to manage the shoot schedule so that the team did not waste time (I selected the locations based on existing and new research that was done to short list the best locations for the type of shots that were needed) but we also had to coordinate with the Australian High Commission and the Ministry of Defence officials to make sure we had a military escort.

	2.11 Demonstrated ability to develop constructive working relationships, negotiate and resolve conflict with a broad range of stakeholders, and increase public awareness and commitment to the Department’s conservation objectives by providing authoritative, scientific advice.
Most of the coordination work that I do has been based on developing systems which enable all collaborators to focus on their specialties. In early March 2009, as part of Phase 2 of a major development program, we got approval from a multilateral aid agency to build agro wells, develop home gardens, conduct conservation education, build a community education center, extend an electric fence to stop marauding elephants, establish a Micro-Finance system and use GIS to map and track these subprojects. By the first week of April I had coordinated the work so that we had completed all these tasks, under budget and to the satisfaction of the funding agency and beneficiary communities while the project manager who was responsible for the area was on Paternity leave. This was an $80,000 extension to a successfully completed, $300,000 project. Even after the project was finished I made sure that we were able to continue to monitor the work to make sure that the benefits to the community continued to grow.  In this process I took on the micro-management of some projects so that individuals in the team that I was leading had the time to attend to their tasks without overextending themselves. Not only did this project have to be completed within a few weeks but I had to manage conflict between 3 ethnic communities residing in the project area, government servants delaying permissions, contractors blaming suppliers and communities for delays, staff issues as they had to work without a holiday and (in a few cases) in an area of the country they had never been to and days where there were shop closures due to factional fighting.
The above is just one example where I have taken the initiative to pre-plan and arrange work so that both internal and external (funding agency) goals are met on time and under budget without sacrificing quality. 



3. KNOWLEDGE
		3.1 Sound knowledge of community engagement and consultation strategies and practices.
I have been using Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA), Rapid Rural Appraisals (RRA), Focus Group Discussions, DELPHI and the principles of similar community mobilization techniques since 1998. Using these and other research and experience based methods I helped develop the SLWCS, Rapid Ecological and Resource Utilization (RERU) [See 6.3 for other details] and Comprehensive Rapid Evaluation System (CRES) methodologies which ensure that project sites are evaluated based on their natural, socio-economic and cultural values in a way that sites and sub-sites can be compared and actions prioritized.
		3.2 Sound understanding of integrated natural resources management initiatives, programs and current issues and the ability to articulate and apply that understanding in a practical capacity.
One of my key areas of interest has been developing Land-Use Conflict Identification Strategy (LUCIS, ESRI Press) based models for landscape level and micro-scale planning for Development programs. The GIS based maps and models I produced were instrumental in securing World Heritage Status for Seruvila Natural and Archeological site and a key reason for the UNDP-Sri Lanka National Disaster Management Center to start looking at Human Elephant Conflict mitigation as a risk reduction exercise in their planning process. Based on my field visits to South Africa I have developed a carbon-neutral program for the society and also initiated a Marine Resource-conservation Initiative for Nature-based Enterprise (MaRINE) program. I have also been exploring carbon-credit systems and keep up to date on issues such as UN Climate Change Charter, the FAO Humanitarian Action Plan, the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (CSD) and the Millennium Development Goals.
 	3.3 Comprehensive knowledge of flora and fauna ecology, ecosystem processes and threatening processes and the ability to apply this knowledge

The GIS based maps and models I produced based on our RERU and CRES surveys, were instrumental in securing World Heritage Status for Seruvila Natural and Archeological site and a key reason for the UNDP-Sri Lanka National Disaster Management Center to start looking at Human Elephant Conflict mitigation as a risk reduction exercise in their planning process.
I have authored (and co-authored) several papers with core themes ranging from GIS to Biodiversity, Community mobilization, Wetland dynamics, Marine conservation, Socio-economics and business development. One of them (Elephant Walk Thru) is now used as a case study for win-win-win development in Harvard (and internationally through Ivey publishing). I am involved in drafting all the technical and financial proposals and reports of the society to funding agencies, including several Government/Aid Agency funds. 
	3.4 Ability to use computer applications for word processing, data analysis, presentations and simple geographic information analysis.
My minor is in Computer Science.  I have developed Land Use Conflict Identification Strategy (LUCIS, ESRI Press) based models for landscape level and micro scale planning for development programs. I was the team leader responsible for setting up the web design arm of Eureka Online (a leading communication company) and was a co-founder of Enigma Pvt Ltd which started the google/yahoo of Sri Lanka (called search.lk) and which designed software and web solutions for many of the top companies in Sri Lanka. I currently handle all the IT needs of the society and another company and have developed the technological systems for it.
I have lectured at the Universities of Peradeniya and Sri Jayawardenepura as well as in Sumatra, Indonesia on database design, structure and maintenance and have been responsible for the SLWCS online and offline databases handling thousands of records and queries.
I started working with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in 2001 and focused on it being used as a tool that allows us to visualize and comprehend landscape level (local community, regional and national government and vested interest lobbies) management pathways to development that is sustainable. In 2007 I won a scholarship for advanced GIS training at a Tertiary level in the USA. I also had the opportunity to present my research at the Earth Science Research Institute (ESRI) User Conference which was attended by over 14,000 people and at the Society for Conservation GIS (SCGIS), in California in June 2007.

	3.5 Landscape ecological theory and its application in a fragmented temperate environment.
The GIS based LUCIS and the RERU systems that I have worked with can be easily adapted to use in this system and are especially suited to a fragmented landscapes.

	3.6 Wetlands and floodplain ecology and water dependant ecosystems
Through the Wetland Conservation Project in Sri Lanka, I have experience working in such systems. Two of our sites have large extents of flooded forests.

3.7 Protected Areas Management
Most of my work has been based on finding solutions to problems caused by management of protected areas that hasn’t taken a landscape view of the system but simply focused on administrative boundaries.  Instead I have always worked towards a landscape level approach which focuses on the buffer and peripheral areas which we call the “eco-social” boundaries as it is in this interface that most of the issues affecting PA’s occur.

3.8 Sustainable growth and development
As in my quote in my cover letter, I have always worked with the mindset that “It is the communities that are most affected by wildlife, that in turn most affect wildlife and need to gain short term benefits from this interaction if the surrounding ecosystems are to be sustainably conserved”. To address this issue I have initiated or managed language and computer skills training, infrastructure development, crop diversification, micro-finance and environmental education programs.

3.9 Market based approach to conservation program delivery 
While project based funding is essential to start programs it is vital that a sustainable funding base is available so that the project does not simply cease to exist when the funding dries up. Due to this reason I managed a field scout training program which has enabled us to start a volunteer and experiential tourism program which provides enough funds to sustain most operations and some funds for infrastructure development. Almost all the programs we run are thus based on market demand or at least funded by the income generated from projects that are open to visitors.

3.10 Experience in managing and delivering externally-funded biodiversity conservation projects.
I have worked with over 40 international, national and local funding agencies (including the US Fish and Wildlife Service, The Canadian International Development Agency, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Born Free Foundation), corporate CSR programs (including with Exetel Communication, Australia),  partner volunteer and tourism companies (including Global Vision International, Australia) and individual donors. Additionally I have managed two tourism companies and been involved with setting up an agriculture development company that provides the society with a stable funding base. To date I have successfully completed (and/or still have operations running/expansion plans) for 17 major projects and several sub projects in fields ranging from biodiversity conservation to risk management, climate change to natural resource management, education to policy, agriculture to animal husbandry and development to protectionist conservation.


